
This is PHHijing, a Subsysreco inspired by the success of PHPythia.

There are several problems with PHENIX HIJING 1.37.  The most
important are the following: 

1) No decays are performed, including D & B.

2) No particle origin vertex is stored

This version seeks to fix these two things, as well as offer a place
to make other fixes in the future.  

The first bug is probably not a huge deal, but we'd like it fixed.
PHENIX HIJING does not do weak and EM decays, but since GEANT doesn't
do D/B decays, the way PHENIX has handled this is to set the PID of
such particles to e neutrino.  At this point the particle and
potential decay products are "lost".  The simple solution is just to
allow HIJING to decay them, as this version does.

The second flaw could be a bigger issue.  Up till now, ALL particles
have been placed at the primary vertex.  There may be cases where this
is undesirable, and we want to insert the particles into PISA at their
real origin.  Maintaining the origin information is straightforward
(using a patch from BAC and Yue Shi).  The problem, however, is that
adding this information to the output FZ file will break any old
HIJING files, since there is no schema evolution in FZ i/o.

Thus we chose to create a new framework separate from hijing137.  It
uses a copy of the same fortran code, with the above changes, and
operates in the fun4all framework.  Therefore the output is in DST
format already.

Because the core code is almost an exact copy of hijing137, it still
requires hijing.par to be present in the pwd.  This can eventually be
changed, though.  Note that you ONLY need hijing.par, since the output
goes directly into a root file.

See PHHijing/macros for an example of running this code.  

TODO:
-----

- remove hijing.par need
- create new i/o routine for PISA so we can read these files in!


